We're showing the ultimate Reddit marketing strategy for B2B and SAS companies. I'm joined by Alina Bonco, who's a Reddit expert as well as a fractional product marketer. We're diving deep into which B2B or SAS companies should think about taking Reddit seriously, an exact playbook for how you can get started, join in on subreddits, build a community, actually drive sales pipeline, and much, much more. We're going to do a complete A to Zed of what you should do, what you should avoid, and everything in between. So, if you're ready to get stuck into Reddit for your B2B company, let's dive in. Hey, Lena, welcome to the show. How are we doing? >> Hi, Sam. Thank you so much for inviting me. I'm good. How are you? >> Doing well. Excited to dive in. Please, can you give everyone a quick introduction to yourself and what you do? >> I'm a product marketer. I'm a fractional product marketer and advisor. I work with B2B tech startups. Traditionally, I help them with launches, product marketing, website messaging, and LinkedIn, but I started helping with Reddit, too. >> Awesome. Well, I'm super excited to dive in for a number of reasons. One, because I'm an absolute Reddit noob and look excited to learn from someone who's an expert like yourself. Two, because nearly all my clients are asking me like, "Sam, how do we get found on Reddit? Like, what's a Reddit strategy? How can we actually start getting visibility there?" and three because Reddit's showing up like crazy right now in Google organic LLMs like chat GBT. So really excited to dig into all the ins and outs of what B2B service tech companies can do to start gaining exposure, visibility and what the the yeses and the nos are when it comes to Reddit marketing. So let's dive straight in. And first and foremost, I'd like to know is Reddit is it worth the time, investment and resource for every B2B company, whether they're tech, SAS or otherwise. >> It depends on what you are going to do on Reddit and how you are going to use it. For example, a lot of companies and consultants suggest different hacks, but uh it's not sustainable channel for hacks. Uh, Reddit hates promotion and um, you can't manipulate votes. You can't create a lot of accounts and engage with each other. But a lot of companies do this and they are even proud of this and they post on LinkedIn about this. But I think it's the wrong way to use Reddit. There are countless ways how you can use Reddit sustainably and you can grow on Reddit. who should invest in Reddit and mostly when I started it was I think B2B productled growth companies. So if you if you need sales it's more difficult but there are difficult different ways how companies use Reddit and if we are talking for example of reputation management all companies can do this because um uh your current clients customers can go on Reddit and complain and I saw use cases when companies managers I saw someone mention your tool and you can use social listening tool and you get on a notification and you can manage this. You can suggest a solution to their problem and this client stays with you. >> Great intro. So, it's funny that that you say that. So, I've been speaking to a few B2B SAS companies, prospects, clients, many of which are still hide hiding pricing on their website. And I'll say, well, that's fine. You can hide pricing on your site, but the chances are someone's going to search your brand name pricing either on Google or an LLM, and it might not pull that information from your website. It'll probably pull it from either a disgruntled Reddit user that said, "I've tried to find their pricing. They're not showing it. It actually is like whatever it is, like several thousand a month or several bucks a month." And they might put a not so happy response to that. So, I'm I'm telling a lot of folks now like you can either control the narrative and have it on your website. And that's just one aspect, right? pricing is just a small fish in a a huge pond of what we could discuss or you might see some disgruntled folks talking about on Reddit or other platforms and kind of sharing their experience. So I think that's a really good good starting point. >> Yes. And you can control this because um I think it's a great way for example how can you use Reddit? It's social listening. Everyone can use this because your customers talk Reddit. They ask questions and they ask question about you and I recommend track your brand name, your category name, maybe your competitors, use cases, jobs to be done so you can join these conversations, you can manage difficult situations, you can uh suggest potential customers your tool because some some of subreddits allow promotions and but you need to disclose knows who you are. For example, you are a founder. So, you are biased. If you are founders, you are biased, but you can tell I am biased. And that's totally okay. People react pretty good if you disclose this. They don't react well when you hide this >> and they find out that who you are and they are angry. >> Yeah, I'm not surprised. So, we'll dive into this some more in a second. You mentioned just now that Reddit tends to lend itself a bit more to PLG like productled growth companies. Does that mean that kind of salesled growth businesses maybe it's not the best use of their time or what what are your thoughts there? >> H so I'll tell you how can companies use Reddit is so different companies can use different ways to use Reddit. For example, everyone can use Reddit for research and there are a lot of ways how you can use it and Reddit launched a lot of new tools. For example, Reddit Pro. It's free. I highly recommend it. It's a lot of analytics and subreddits. Uh, also it launched Reddit answers. You can, it's like it search engine and you can find what Reddit knows about you and everyone can use this way. I also did research myself. I asked in niche communities if you for example need to create a piece of content and you want some input from experts or from your audience you can ask this or if you have a common question you can ask in a big subreddit called um ask reddit. I also use this and I asked why people use Reddit and uh they gave me like 34 answers is very big subreddit so you can use this way. Um so next is commenting I think it's great for B2B productled companies commenting in niche subreddits. uh you can for example if someone asks the best tool in category you can suggest your tool and it's a great way because if they can try it and um based on my experience and with my clients and with people I know they got clients directly from so this way it's for productled growth companies but for example as I told you social listening even salesled companies can use it because people ask about pricing as you told people ask reviews specifics about features use cases so you can also manage this all >> awesome so I've heard kind of getting feedback social listening reputation management recommending your your offering your tool your product where people are actually asking about it are there any other kind of use cases that are quite big >> yes people started uh building their personal brands If you're a founder, you can build your personal brand also on Reddit. One of the great use case is I started doing it. It's ask me anything sessions because you can introduce yourself to Reddit. You can show your uh expertise. You can tell about your tool to depends on the subreddit who loves this, who doesn't. Uh what else? I love Reddit communities. I help my client build a community and I love this because you establish rules. If it's your own community, you establish rules. It's pretty difficult to build a community on Reddit because you need settings. You need to invite people. It's pretty difficult at the beginning when a community is new and tiny. You need to communicate with people to invite people to manage difficult situations. But it's very rewarding because I can tell you about my client if we used this Reddit answers when without a community their company was already presented on Reddit. But when you ask the best tools in this category, Reddit didn't show it because there are big players. It's the same uh as search engine optimization. You know, if we have big players, it's difficult. Sure. But one one month and Reddit already shows it at the top. >> Wow. Was that was that on Google results or something else? >> No, no, no. It was on Reddit uh Reddit launched a special search AI search. >> Okay. >> And I think after this search, I think that AI charts use information from this search. M >> and I also can tell you that from if we talking about communities that they most successful we can tell this way posts ask me anything sessions I can tell you memes people love memes but >> you're the meme master Alina anyone that's not checked out Alina I'm I'm a noob on Reddit like I say but LinkedIn's where I spend most of my time but if you check out Alina's LinkedIn profile she's got some of the the most unique and entertaining like memes in the B2B space are well worth a check. >> Thank you. But I wanted to to share one insight. I was very surprised. Real quick, if you want to start taking LLM and Google organic visibility seriously in driving a steady stream of sales pipeline through organic search and SEO, why not book a call with me over at breakingb2.com where we can share actual tips, ideas, and a strategy to start making SEO a top demo, signup, or lead driver for your B2B company. That's breaking.com or hit the link in the description below. Right, back to the episode. the most shares from the community from all the posts. It gained a blog post. So, it's a great distribution channel. So, it was a Reddit post in the community in the owned community, but it was like short posts with a link to a blog post and it had the most shares. So, it's a great also distribution channel. The problem is is that most subreddits don't allow links or >> Okay, got it. We'll we'll dive into that in a second because this is all really useful stuff, especially for for folks that are newer to to the Reddit game. Is there for anyone that's tuned in so far and thinks that I want to I want to start taking Reddit seriously for for my company, my brand. Are there things that they need to do before? Are there foundations they need to set up before they actually start creating accounts going into subreddits and beyond? >> Yes. For example, they 100% need to know basic Reddit rules because it's very easy to get banned. It's very easy to do something wrong and they need to do basics. Uh I created this some kind of playbook and I'll tell you about it. So you need to create three tables. One of the table is called keywords and you need to mention all list all your keywords. So your brand name, your category, market category, your use cases and your competitors. It's product marketing work. Um it's connected with my work. So um I think it's important and you need to start tracking these keywords uh using social listening tool and I can recommend you a free tool free tool called F5 bot. >> Great. >> It's free and the main thing I think to track your brand name and um your category name when someone asks uh for recommendations you can >> I see >> join and suggest you too. So you need a table with all these keywords. Next you need to list subreddits. I think you need three types of subreddits. It's small niche subreddits. You can build your audience there. You can post maybe niche posts if if the subreddit allows this. Next you need big sometimes you can post in big subreddits but it's difficult. I have a story when my friend she's a business owner and she mentioned her tool not even linked just mentioned and she get banned >> permanently. Ouch. >> Uh from that subreddit. Yes. >> Okay. >> Yes. I forgot to tell you about one um way to use Reddit. It's building in public subreddits. I discovered Reddit because of this subreddit. They allow promotion and it's great for startup founders. That's how I found out about Reddit. And um in this subreddit uh founders, marketers share their stories about their lessons, what they learned, what worked, what didn't. And these subreddits allow promotions and links. You know, a lot of people on LinkedIn do building in public and people love this. >> For sure. >> Yes. >> Yeah. Yeah. For sure. >> And so you can use Reddit this way too. So you need the second your table the second table it's about subreddits you need to list all subreddits and the third table it's interesting it's conversations that already cited by AI charts and overviews so you need to do audit and list all the conversations that are cited in in for example chpt you know chpt shows um sources And you need to list all these subreddits and list all your conversations. And if conversation is open, some conversations um on Reddit are closed. If a conversation is open, you can join this conversation and mention your tool. And so chat GPT can mention your tool too. So I think it's a great way because it's like if you need to create a new post, it's difficult. But if you can just mention your tool, it's easier. It's like creating a new guest blog blog post or insert your tool in existing. >> I like it. I like it. So, we're basically listing out these I call them money keywords in SEO, but it almost sounds like money Reddit keywords. Um, kind of listing those out and using what was the name of the tool that you you recommended for the social listening? >> F5bot. >> F5bot. Are we using that from the start? So, are we put making our list of kind of Reddit keywords and then are we using this bot to find the subreddits and then checking the subreddit rules, making sure they allow for like brand mentions and >> No, just keywords. Just keywords and it sends uh emails to me when someone uses it. >> Got it. And then would you kind of then make a list of the relevant subreddits that keep getting pulled up and then kind of make a note of the rules on each so you kind of know for as and when you you act I don't know add comment within each sub subreddit or is there like a an etiquette to this? >> So there are countless ways how can you use Reddit. So it can be like five full-time jobs. You need to choose how you can use it. For example, you can do only social listening in just comment and that's all. uh you or you can create posts in this or niche subreddits or you can if you don't know what to post you can just ask question and I know even how some companies manipulate with this they ask questions then they return and then list their tool as a solution but you just can ask question if is subreddit allows to add your tool you can add if it doesn't allow how you can do this or you can get banned. >> Got it. And is there what would you say is for folks like B2B marketers, founders that are tuning in? What would you say is the like most straightforward approach? Is it is it doing that making that list of the keywords, finding the relevant subreddit using the tool you've mentioned, and then kind of starting to slowly get involved and like comment in those? Is that is that the the simplest way to get started or are there other things that you should do? It's the simplest way, but if you want to create a community, you can at the same time create a community to understand how everything works because it's difficult. Reddit has a lot of settings and it's good how to start. You also should create your account, but you also can create three different accounts. A brand name as a user, for example, breaking B2B as a user. It's okay. Reddit has now Reddit pro accounts and you can turn this account into a business account. So what um what this means? So you will get all trends, all analytics. Uh you can even host ask me anything session as a user. It's something new. They just launched it. But I think it's great. So you business, you are a business, but you use a username. You can create a brand name as a subreddit. So it's a community. It's your community. And it's I think even if you are not going to like do create this community right now, it's good to register this subreddit right now. So nobody else takes to own that. >> Yes, you should own it. And a lot of people also do the third way. It's user from company same from B2B and for example if um you do reputation management and someone post something not very um good about your company you can join and you can manage this and then also see that you are from this company. >> Okay. Are there any considerations we should take between having like a personal account and a business account? >> I don't know. uh because I started uh this personal account like and I just turned it into business account. It's not business. It's pro account but I think it's called also business account and I just have more analytics. I just have more data and I can host ask me anything sessions from I'm going to do this. I think it's very interesting uh from my account. So I don't need subreddits because a lot of subreddits um don't allow this and I I can do this. So I think you can just create just a profile and turn it into Reddit pro. >> Understood. Okay. Is there much we need to know in terms of the the general strategy? And when I say that, I suppose to give some context like so at the time of recording this interview, like LinkedIn organic reach feels like, at least to me that the the reach has dropped a ton in terms of organic posts. And it feels like actually like one strategy right now on LinkedIn, it feels like find folks that are somewhat within your industry, whether they're competitors or whether your audience follows them or your ICP follows them or they're similar um cross agency companies, whatever they might be, and then commenting on their post seems to get way more reach and impressions than your post itself. And also like you say right now as one trend on LinkedIn for example building public posts are seem to be performing well when you share numbers and specifics and like the hook for example has like a a number of a revenue number or something like that they seem to do quite well. Are there any strategies in terms of that? Not necessarily trends for Reddit, but how your approach should be when you go in to comment on certain subreddits or you mentioned communities as well that folks that are new to Reddit should should consider and I guess that's actually going to help them get better return for their time and energy. >> Uh I think it depends on your goals and resources and what you want from Reddit. So if you are going to and you are ready to invest in community please it's great way because you you are the owner it's your own rules and uh a reddit community can be your best channel because communities it's great but it's also difficult to build you constantly get feedback your usersh can ask directly your questions but you need to invest in this for example in content strategy and you will have problems with community for example you will have spam and so if you are going to invest in this I think it's the best way so if you don't have resources the best way to use Reddit is social listening >> okay >> you get keywords and you join this conversations or manage something or you suggest your tool but if you're you're ready it's great to create a community there >> got Okay, >> because it's your rules. >> Makes sense. >> And most market I didn't tell you. Most marketers, how do most B2B marketers use Reddit? They run ads and they start with ads, Reddit ads. But I think that it's not a good strategy because they don't know Reddit. They don't know what's they don't know the audience and Reddit hates self-promotion. But as I know and especially with Reddit Pro, they allow you to use your posts as ads and I think it's also a great way like LinkedIn allows with sort leads. >> Sure, >> you can do this on Reddit. >> Nice. Are there any other big mistakes that you see B2B marketers or founders make on on Reddit? I think that using different tricks, hugs and even a lot of agencies use this tricks and hugs. Um I don't know maybe shortterm it can work if Reddit would find out about this you will be banned and it's possible that all your website link can be banned from Reddit. I think it's not good at all. So you will never can use it. uh Reddit um right now it's very difficult because Reddit started um so it removes comments and posts without any violations and it's bad and uh you need to manage this or you need karma or you need account age so it's 10 days or more and without this you can't post or reddit has a very interesting score like credit score it's um they don't disclose it but if you have a low score uh Reddit will remove your posts and comments and it's not very well so you need yes you need to secure your account so two-step verification mail verification so and post you can't as I know you can't use VPN because they try to avoid any manipulation it happened with me that I started getting messages you can't Reddit filters removed your posts and I started digging why and it was because of the score but you need to contribute you need up votes and so everything they promise that everything will be good >> got it let let's talk a little bit about LLM visibility I'm getting asked about it a lot I'm seeing it a lot when I'm when I'm doing prompts and searches in chat GBT as well as Google that Reddit's pulling up especially like you touched on earlier if you're looking for I don't know best X software or best X category best X tools all that kind of stuff where you're you've got that kind of bottom ofunnel search where you're looking directly for a specific type of solution tool or even service provider where folks in our case are comparing like B2B SAS SEO agencies even works there quite a lot of the time Reddit threads will be pulled up you did mention it in the start when you're talking about the kind of the keyword strategy is there anything folks tuning in should should bear in mind if they want to get cited more when it comes to LLM visibility >> yes they need to do audit what already cited. And in the third table, it will be a table where you will list all the um conversations that already exist on Reddit and you can not only take them with them from TajT, you can also use Google search and at Reddit and you will have more discussions. Then you also can use I told you about uh a new Reddit feature, Reddit answers. So you will have a list a big list of um already existing conversations and you can join and just suggest your tool this AI charts can quote you sited this information uh and also building a community it's also a great way because you you can control the narrative you can control the content you post there a lot of subreddits don't allow this and your posts can be removed move. But in your own subreddit, you can control everything. And also, if you're talking about visibility, there are a lot of like advice that uh you can just ask question. So, you try to um ask the same question as um your customer can ask. But of course if uh subreddit allows promotion and I told you that a lot of agencies use this trick. They ask question and they then they link to their to their clients tool. >> Yeah. I was just thinking in my head just now like that could work if someone's asking for tool recommendations or software recommendations or agency recommendations that they could do that or they could even get like a happy customer to just reply in the thread. Um I guess that's a bit more ethical if you get a happy customer and you >> happy customer. Yes, it's totally and it's great way both to get customers to get great reviews and uh being in the this answers in charts. >> Nice. >> It's just a lot of ways how to use Reddit and I don't recommend to start with everything just step by step depends on what your goals. >> Are you using any tools? Are you doing it manually when it comes to seeing what subreddits are cited in LLMs and Google search or using any tools? >> No, I did this manually and I frankly I didn't tell you about a very interesting Reddit rule. It's called Reddit's um 9 to1 rule. So for every nine useful post, you can promote one time. H >> so I don't need a lot of these discussions because Reddit can't find that I am a spammer. And you don't need a lot of these discussions. I think 15 it's enough to be cited. But you need to post useful comments, useful posts and then uh like hide this maybe self-promotion between this post. It's how Reddit works. You need to be useful and sometimes self-promote. >> Got it. It's almost like LinkedIn posting, right? In that aspect, like if you're constantly self-promoting your own post, then no one's going to care. But if you're actually sharing stuff that's, I don't know, whether it's a hot take or a useful idea or a case study or building in public or problem you've solved or a how-to explanation or some unique research or something like that, and then you I don't know one in 10 10 post you promote something then uh it's it feels like a slightly similar etiquette in that that sense. >> Yes. But it's strict and I don't know how business owners allow to use different like this tools or like manipulations. I would be afraid to do this because I don't want to be fully banned from Reddit. And also to start I didn't tell you that um a user can have multiple accounts. So for example, if someone use uses Reddit to post screenshots to LinkedIn Lunatics, you can create the second account for your business and it's totally okay. It's not okay to engage between these two accounts. So it's manipulating behavior, but you can use it's it's totally okay. You can even use the same email. Reddit allows this. Okay, >> I tell you this based on my experience because when I suggest someone uses Reddit to use Reddit and or I invited people to ask me anything sessions and then no no no no I use it for different purposes and so it's totally okay to to create accounts. >> Got it. I suppose to wrap things up there's a lot of B2B marketers that will tune into this. There'll be some B2B founders if they've tuned in so far and they think this all sounds great. But what is I suppose one the the time investment that either myself or someone from my team needs to spend realistically whether that's like X hours per day or per week to make it a success kind of following these strategies that you've outlined. If we pretend let's let's say we went down the social listening route as a starting point. What should be the time investment realistically and how long roughly until you can kind of see something whether that's kind of your brand consistently mentioned inside LMS or if you're PLG based like you discussed like starting to see some signups come in. >> If you are going to create a community you need to invest really a lot. It can be a full-time job and for some companies for product companies uh for companies who are based on communities I highly recommend this now because it's cited everywhere it it's your customers it's your potential customers so I highly recommend this but for example my clients all the team participated and the founder also it's huge time investment and you need to figure everything out. But if you are not going to invest so much time, you can just do social listening and it can be even a couple of times per week. It's totally it's it's already okay. >> And could you still see impact of that? I.e. maybe your your brand being mentioned in LLMs and perhaps some signups coming off the back of it even if you just did a few kind of posts a week. Yes, but uh I recommend and you know this from search engine optimization. You need to invest in bottom of the funnel this tracking this keywords like money keywords. >> Fair enough. Is there anything I should have asked you Alena that I haven't that any B2B marketer or founders should know before they dig into the strategy that you've shared? I think we discussed a lot but it can be sometimes difficult even to decide what to do and they just need to decide what they want from Reddit and it's citation or community or building in public and they just need to just open it and just observe what works what works in the industry how the industry is already presented on Reddit. because someone asked me should I create a a niche subreddit like sales or marketing or should I create a brand subreddit like breaking B2B and I told them it's it depends on what how your industry or your company is already presented on Reddit or I also read on LinkedIn I think from someone from Hopspot that someone else created their community and they just wrote to them to commoderate it because they wanted to be involved. Okay, >> they wrote to moderators and they said yes of course and so you need to understand how Reddit already what Reddit already thinks about you and after this you can are you a big company or you a small company are you a productled growth company or salesled growth company do you have resources or no and based on this you can already decide what strategies can you use? >> Got it. So, long story short, kind of it sounds like start with the end in mind, what you actually want to get out of Reddit, whether that's like you say, whether that's like product feedback or building community or looking to mention your brand where relevant or or something else. And also see what's already happening around your industry for similar competitors like see how they're kind of structuring their Reddit playbook to give you some some ideas on what's working, what's not. Awesome. I really appreciate it. This is going to be very useful for it's been useful for me. It's going to be exceptionally useful for I think a bunch of marketers cuz I think Reddit especially at the time of recording is a really really hot topic purely because it's just getting so much visibility on Google and LLMs. Plus, I haven't talked to many B2B companies that don't like the idea of building a community and getting more brand visibility. I feel like we're moving into the brand era of B2B and the mind share era of B2B. So, I think this has been a super useful episode. So, really really appreciate the time Alina. Appreciate you sharing all of your wisdom. And with that, please do tell us more about how anyone tuning in can learn more from yourself, connect with you, and the best way to get in touch. >> You can connect with me on LinkedIn. I live there or on Reddit. Uh I've started building my own community there. Someone even told that um it's a new channel for influencer marketing. I'm not sure about this, but we'll see. So, Reddit, LinkedIn, on my website. >> Awesome. Thanks, Lena. We'll link all of those in the show notes and the description below. And once again, really appreciate your time. >> Thank you so much for inviting me. Thank you. >> And there we have it. I hope you found this Reddit marketing masterass useful. I know I certainly did. And if you want to join thousands of B2B legends, enjoy my weekday newsletter. You're going to instantly unlock my 90 days to revenue B2B SEO guide, as well as getting daily updates on SEO case studies, weird B2B marketing plays, podcast updates, and much, much more. Head over to breaking B2B.com, hit that newsletter tab, and you can get stuck in. And with that, I shall catch you on the next one. Cheers.